# Raising a number to nth power

Given a floating value `base` with type double and an integer `exponent` with type int. Raise `base` to the power of `exponent`.

### Solution:

One way is to use recursion: if `exponent` is even, `Power(base, exponent)` equals to `Power(base, exponent/2)^2`, otherwise, it equals to `Power(base, exponent/2)^2` times `base` when `exponent >= 0`, `1.0/base` when `exponent < 0`. 

The basic case is when `exponent == 0`, we return `1.0`, or when `exponent == 1`, we return `base`, or when `exponent == -1` we return `1.0/base`.

Another way is to use iteration. The binary representation of `exponent` can help us compute the power in a bottom-up approach. For example, to compute `3^13`. The binary form of `13` is `1101`. And `3^13 = 3^8 * 3^4 * 3^1`. We can associate the binary sequence with our power: we check the sequence from right to left. Let `cur` denote the subpower of current digit. Then for the right most digit, we have `cur = base`. For the second right most digit, `cur = cur * cur`, which is the reason we start from right. If the current digit is `1`, our result `re *= cur`. 

In the end, if the exponent is non-negative, we return `re`, otherwise, we return `1.0/re`.

We also need to consider special cases. If the base is 0 and the exponent is non-negative, we should return 0. If the base is 0 and exponent is negative, we should decleare it's invalid. To compare a double value `base` equals to 0 or not, we can't use `==` directly, we should set some threshold to decide.


```
public class Solution {
    boolean invalidInput = false;
    public double Power(double base, int exponent) {
        if(equals(base, 0.0)){
            if(exponent < 0){
                invalidInput = true;
            }else
                return 0.0;
        } 

        int absExponent = exponent;
        if(exponent < 0) absExponent = -1 * exponent;
        double re = 1.0, cur = base;
        while(absExponent > 0){
            if((absExponent & 1) > 0) re *= cur;
            cur *= cur;
            absExponent >>= 1;
        }
        return exponent >= 0 ? re : 1.0/re;
        
  }
    
  private boolean equals(double num, double target){
      if(num-target < 0.0000001 && target-num < 0.0000001)
          return true;
      else
          return false;
  }
}
```
