# Linked list cycle

Given a linked list, return the node where the cycle begins. If there is no cycle, return null.

Note: Do not modify the linked list.



### Solution:

If a linked list have a cycle, we can use two pointers `slow` and `fast` to locate the entry node of the cycle. `fast` pointer walks two nodes every time, while `slow` move to next node every time. We first wait `slow` and `fast` to meet, then move two pointers one step a time and they will meet right at the entry of the cycle. 

The reason is: 

Suppose the list has `s` nodes before the entry node, and the cycle has `r` nodes. Assume two pointers meet at some node which is `m`-th node after the entry node in the cycle after `k` times. 

Since `fast` has a speed as twice as `slow`, we know the number of nodes `fast` walked is twice of the number of node `slow` walked.

If `slow` walked the cycle `a` times when they meet, the number of nodes it covers is : `s + m + a*r`.

If `fast` walked the cycle `b` times when they meet, the number of nodes it covers is : `s + m + b*r`.

Then we have:

`2(s + m + a*r) = s + m + b * r`, which will reduce to `m + s = (b - 2*a)*r`, then we can have `s = (b - 2*a - 1) * r + r - m`.

This means after they meet, we get `m`. As long as we let one points, say `slow`, start from head, the other, `fast`, start from where they meet, when `slow` walked `s` distance, meanwhile, `fast` spined `(b - 2*a - 1)` times along the cycle. Finally, they meet at the entry of the cycle.

```
public class Solution {
    public ListNode detectCycle(ListNode head) {
        if(head == null || head.next == null) return null;
        ListNode s = head, f = head;
        while(f != null && f.next != null && s.next != f.next.next){
            s = s.next;
            f = f.next.next;
        }
        if(f == null || f.next == null) return null;
        f = s.next; s = head;
        while(s != f){
            s = s.next;
            f = f.next;
        }
        return s;
    }
}
```
